Thank you and good afternoon.
This is the Integrating with iCal session
and I'm Red from the iCal team and just
want to thank you all for coming on down.
So the team has been very busy working
on a new framework for all of you guys.
You saw it in action
Monday morning with mail to-dos.
You could see it takes full advantage
of our to-do support with due dates,
alarms, priorities,
putting in what calendar you want.
So it reads and writes to-dos.
As you may have seen on
the seed or other demos,
there's a new widget that used
to be called the calendar widget,
which is now the iCal widget.
And it takes advantage of
the framework to use events.
So you've got mail using it for to-dos
and the widget using it for events.
And we'd like to see a lot more
applications from all of you
guys coming on and using it.
And these are just kind of maybe
some wishful thinking possibilities.
So you're going to hear this
a few times that it's easy.
I'm saying it now.
You're going to hear my teammate
Matt say it a few times.
We've taken the time to do all the heavy
lifting as far as the data storage is
concerned and recurrence expansion.
So like the widget,
if you're interested in just a
particular day's worth of events,
We'll do all the figuring out of
what events really exist today.
Thanksgiving, which is the fourth
Thursday of every November,
does it fit inside the pattern or not?
There's hundreds of lines of
recurrence expansion and valuation.
We're doing that.
The data storage of how you
store events that occur on the
first and 15th of every month.
We'll do all that heavy lifting for you.
You all should focus on making
your apps great and figuring out
ways to interoperate with iCal.
The stuff you have in your
app will show up in iCal.
And then if you want to read it,
it'll be there vice versa also.
Now,
what if you're already accessing iCal
through AppleScript or Sync Services?
Well, don't worry about it.
We're not touching it.
It's still there.
It'll still work.
And if you're asking yourself,
so which way should I get at the data?
Should it be through AppleScript or
Sync Services or the new framework?
I'd ask you to think about that.
I'd ask you to think about the Address
Book framework a little bit because
it actually has all three methods,
comparable methods of
interacting with it.
And you have to think about your
data interaction and how you want to
really interact with Address Book.
The same thing would
be true about Calendar,
the Calendar Store framework.
So one other thing.
This is a very big, large,
extensive framework.
And we believe we've
done a really good job.
We know we can make it better.
And we want your feedback.
So tomorrow at Mac OS X Lab C,
we're all going to be there at 3:30,
and we'd like you to come down,
bring your PowerBooks, bring your code,
try it out, see what works well,
see what needs a little polish,
come and just meet us and talk to us.
Tell us what you need,
what you've been doing with iCal,
and see how we can try and
make things work as best as
we can for all of you guys.
So without further ado,
I'd like to introduce Matt DiMaggio.
And he'll go in.
into the framework in detail.
Thank you.
Thanks, Red.
So my name is Matt.
I'm excited to be here to talk to you
guys about the CalendarStore framework,
which is, as it says up there,
a new way to access iCal's data.
So just to give you a kind of road map
of what we'll be talking about today,
first I'll go over reading
calendar data and look at all
the various classes in the API.
I'll move on to the notification
model and finally conclude
with writing calendar data,
going into things you need to
be aware of when doing that.
So who is this API for?
Well,
anybody who wants to access iCal's data.
This could be reading and writing data,
as Mail does, or just sharing data,
like the new iCal widget.
I think the easiest way to understand
the classes in this framework is
by correlating them to things that
you're already familiar with in iCal.
So you'll notice in the
list of calendars there,
those things are all
represented as Cal calendars.
Events are Cal events.
To-dos are Cal tasks, and so on.
And what we'll be doing throughout
this talk is kind of giving you
an example of how to go from here,
where the data is in iCal, to here,
where the data is in your application.
So the first thing we'll talk about,
the first class, is Cal CalendarStore.
This really is where it all starts.
I think the easiest way to-- or one thing
that I remind you of is AB Address Book.
This is the class where you'll
be getting access to the three
main data types in the framework.
That's calendars, events, and to-dos.
And if somebody's looking
at that and thinking,
to-dos, hmm,
there shouldn't be an apostrophe there.
Well.
We talked about that and talked
about maybe writing it as
to-dos without an apostrophe.
That doesn't look right,
so maybe there's not a space.
We actually spent an inordinate
amount of time on the team going
over how this should be spelled
and written in documentation.
And so what you'll find within the
API itself is we do not refer to to-dos.
Instead, we call everything tasks.
So...
I'll use the two terms
interchangeably while I'm up here,
but they're the same.
To do an iCal is a task in the API.
So as I said, Cal CalendarStore is your
main place to access data.
It contains all the information
that you'll see in iCal.
And here are the principal
methods to access that data.
So default CalendarStore is a class
method that gives you access to
an instance of the CalendarStore.
And then you can make calls on the
CalendarStore to get a full list
of calendars or to get-- oops,
there you go-- and that'll
return an array of Cal calendars.
An array of events using a predicate,
which we'll talk about,
that returns an array of cal events.
And of course,
tasks also using a predicate.
So I'll kind of be building
this diagram as I go through,
just another way to kind of
understand the classes and their
relationship with each other.
That's the Cal Calendar Store.
The first data class that we're
going to look at is Cal Calendar.
Again, this is exactly the same thing
we would be seeing in iCal's UI.
So here are the main
methods on Cal Calendar.
There's the color,
which is the same as the
color that shows up in iCal.
And the title, which is again the title.
And there are two more methods
here that are also pretty useful.
IsEditable would tell you whether
or not the calendar-- whether or not
you can make changes to events and
tasks that appear on the calendar.
So example of events that the user
can't make changes to and that
you won't be able to make changes
to using the API are things that
appear on a subscribe calendar,
on iCal's birthday calendar,
or on one of the CalDaf calendars,
which you probably heard
about in earlier sessions.
And finally,
a UID in case you need to store
a reference to that calendar
for some point in the future.
All right.
This is the first data class.
The second one is CalEvent.
Now CalEvent is actually a
subclass of CalCalendarItem.
This is the only inheritance
we have in the framework.
And CalCalendarItem contains things
that are relevant to events and tasks,
or to-dos.
Those things include the title,
the calendar,
which is returned as a CalCalendar,
the class we just reviewed,
Alarms, which is an array of CalAlarms,
which we'll look at later,
and the URL and notes that are
associated with a given event.
and CalEvent itself has
event specific data.
There's the location,
whether or not the event is all day.
The rule is stored as
a CalRecurrence rule,
yet another class in the framework.
And finally, attendees.
That's an array of attendees.
Those are represented as CalAttendees,
the final class we'll be looking at.
So using those three classes,
Cal Calendar Store, Cal Calendars,
and Cal Events,
we actually have enough information
to show the events as they
appear here in the iCal widget.
Now one other point I want to discuss
before we look at some sample code is
that the events you see here represented
in the widget aren't all of the events
that are in the user's calendar.
These are events that
begin on a specific day.
And you're going to define that using the
API with a start date and an end date.
So there's two pieces
of information you need.
The third one is a list of calendars.
And here in the widget,
we're actually showing events
from all the calendars.
But in your app,
you'll be able to show events and
tasks from only certain calendars,
just like iCal does.
So we take those three
pieces of information,
the calendars, the start date,
and the end date,
and roll them up into a single
NS predicate that you'll be able to
use to query for a list of events.
Here is some sample code.
Start off by getting an instance
of the Cal CalendarStore.
and kind of create a predicate
using the three pieces of
information I just discussed:
the start date, end date,
and a list of calendars.
And then get all the events.
That's it.
So if all you want to do is look
at the events that are in the
iCal widget like you saw there,
then we're done.
You can actually get on to the
Safari and WebKit session going on down
the hall and get some more information.
For the grizzled veterans
that are looking for a more
thorough discussion of the API,
we'll move on to the next data class,
which is CalTask.
All right, as I mentioned before,
CalTask is a subclass of CalCalendarItem.
So it has all the same things that
CalCalendarItem has for CalEvents.
And these are calendars, the URLs,
et cetera.
And then CalTask itself only
has a few specific fields.
There's a Boolean for whether
or not it's completed.
An enumerated type, CalPriority,
for how high the
priority of the event is.
And a due date, stored as an NSDate.
So when we talked about events,
there were three parameters
that we used to kind of describe
the events that we wanted.
The start date, the end date,
and the list of calendars.
Now with tasks it's a little different.
We're still using an array of calendars,
but instead of a start date and end date,
you'll use completed,
whether or not it's completed,
and when it was completed.
And the due date, again,
whether or not it has a due
date and when that due date is.
The sample code is very similar.
Get a copy of the CalendarStore,
create a predicate using the array
of calendars as discussed before,
and then ask for the tasks.
Again, that's it.
Three lines of code.
Now because the due date and the
completed date are different and a
little more complicated than with events,
the predicates look a little different.
And you'll notice that when
you look at the predicate
extensions in Cal CalendarStore.
There's more ways to query for
tasks and a few more predicates.
All right,
so these are the three main data
types that you'll be accessing:
CalCalendars, CalEvents, and Caltasks.
The next three classes are all
accessed by way of those data types,
starting with CalAlarms,
which isn't a data type you can
access from any CalCalendar item,
specifically a CalEvent or a Caltask.
So CalAlarm's,
the first method is action,
and that's going to return one
of a few different constants
that we've defined in CalAlarm.h.
That's to do with the type,
whether it's a sound or an email alarm.
And then depending on
the type of the alarm,
there will also be accessors you can
use to get a path to the sound or get
a string for the email address that
you're sending an email reminder to.
And finally, a URL,
and that's a file URL that is used for
both the open file and the run script.
So CalAlarm's, the final two things here,
relative trigger and absolute trigger,
have to do with when the
alarm is set to go off.
If that's defined in terms
of the start time of an event
or the due date of a to-do,
in terms of relative to those times,
then it will be defined
using an NS time interval.
That's the relative trigger.
If it's set to go off at
a statically defined time,
an absolute time,
that'll use absolute trigger
and return as an NSDate.
All right.
Next up is Cal Attendee.
This is also something that's
returned in an array from Cal events.
So Cal attendees have a comma
name that'll be the user entered
string for the name of the person
that's attending the event.
A status is defined as a static
string in the header file.
That's going to be whether or
not the attendee has replied and
accepted or declined the invitation.
and an NSURL for the address.
Now,
in the kind of old style iCal events,
these are events that live
on a regular iCal calendar,
that would always be an email address.
And since it's returned with an NSURL,
it's a fully qualified email
address and I'll have mail
to it at the beginning of it.
The reason that we're using NSURL here
instead of returning it as an NSString is
that in the case of a CalDAV calendar,
this is a calendar that
lives on a CalDAV server,
you might not have an email address.
Instead you'll have a URL that
refers to that user on the server.
So here we've got a fully qualified
URL that just points to that
user's record on the server.
All right, and the final class is
Cal Recurrence Rule.
Now,
one thing I want to note here is that
this class isn't really necessary
if you're just displaying data.
If you're just showing the
event that happened in a day,
iCal does the recurrence
calculation for you and will tell
you automatically whether or not
the event belongs in that day.
So this is really only if you're adding
recurrence data or editing recurrence
data on a currently existing event.
So Cal Recurrence Rule.
Every recurrence rule
has a recurrence type.
And that'll be the unit of time
the recurrence is defined with,
whether that's daily, weekly, monthly,
or yearly.
It will also have a recurrence interval,
which is, kind of simply put,
how often the event repeats.
So an interval of one means that
it repeats every day or week.
An interval of two means every other.
Three is every third, and so on.
and a recurrence end,
which is defined with a separate
little class that we've tucked
in the CalRecurrenceRule.h.
And for an event that doesn't-- a
repeating event that's never set to end,
the recurrence end will just be nil.
So this is a data type that's only
used when you've already got the
end of a repeating event defined.
And then if it's defined in terms of a
number of times that the event repeats,
And you'll see it defined as,
it'll be returned as an unsigned integer
for the number of times that it repeats.
And if it's set to stop
repeating after a certain date,
it'll just be an NSDate.
So then depending on the recurrence type,
there are some other methods you can
use to access data about the recurrence.
These are methods that return
arrays of indices on which the event
repeats for custom repeating events.
So in this example,
we return an NSArray that explains which
days of the week an event might repeat.
and kind of in this example,
where an event repeats Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday,
there's going to be an array of integers.
That'll be two, three, four, five,
and six.
Days of the month is the same idea.
It's indices for the days of the month
that a custom event might repeat.
Same idea for weeks of the month.
And finally, months of the year.
So that's all the
classes in the framework.
Next thing I'm going to look
at is the notification model.
This is kind of a high level
diagram for what's going on.
So when the user makes a change in iCal
or iCal gets a change via sync or even
over another application using the API,
that change is made
with the CalendarStore.
And there's something in the background,
the instances of the CalendarStore
will talk to each other.
So the one that they're using will
talk to the one that you're using,
and the one that you're using
sends off a notification to you.
This is a local notification.
You won't sign up for
distributed notification,
just a regular notification
with NS Notification Center.
This is similar to the way
that it's done in AddressBook.
You'll be able to use
separate notifications for
each of the main data types.
So if you only want to know about
changes that have to do with events,
you can just get
notifications for those types.
And within the notification itself,
there's a user info dictionary.
So you can either see that
there's a notification and
just refresh your data set,
kind of using the predicate
that you built before,
Or you can look at the
notification itself,
try to the user info dictionary,
and get the UID for the
records that have changed.
Now,
we haven't really talked about UID yet.
For Cal tasks, it's very simple.
Each task has its own UID,
and you can actually access each
specific task with a method from
Cal CalendarStore called TaskWithUID.
For Cal events it can
get a little trickier.
Non-repeating events,
these are just one-off events
that happen once in the user's
calendar and don't repeat,
they all have their own UID.
Now an instance,
all instances of a given repeating event,
it's an event that
repeats more than once,
will have the same UID.
So you can't differentiate
between those with only UID.
Instead we've included another
accessor called the occurrence.
And each occurrence is unique to
the instance of a repeating event.
Here's a little diagram to explain
that a little more clearly.
All of these events,
this is one repeating event,
they all have the same UID.
but they all have different
occurrence values.
And so if you ever need to
look up a specific instance,
a specific Cal event,
you can do that on the Cal CalendarStore
by passing a UID and an occurrence.
Now just to give you a kind of demo
of the notification system in action,
I'll show you how it works
with the iCal widget.
Okay.
You can see here's my iCal.
And when I go into Dashboard
and look at the widget,
it's only got one event on for today.
So I'll go back to iCal.
And I'll change the movie event that
I scheduled for tomorrow to be today.
And when I do that,
a notification gets sent
off to the iCal widget,
which is listening for notifications.
And the iCal widget has the update.
The movie appears right there.
So that's notifications.
And finally,
we look at how to write iCal data.
So the workflow is
pretty straightforward.
You get the event or task
that you want to use.
You'll make your modifications to it.
And then you just call saveEvent
or saveTask in the appropriate
method from the Cal CalendarStore.
So looking at a code example,
we have an event.
In this case, we're changing its title.
and then we're calling
on the Cal CalendarStore,
saveEvent.
There's one other parameter
here we haven't talked about
and that's the CalSpan.
In this case we're saying
CalSpan this event,
only modify this event.
Now the CalSpan is an enumerated type.
It has several different values.
This event, future events,
and all events.
And this is actually required
to be passed in if you're
making modification to an event.
And what we've done here is
we've made it necessary for you,
the client of the API,
to force the user to make a decision
as to what the change should apply to.
Just like an ICAO when
the user makes a change,
it says, do you want to apply it just to
this event or all future ones,
and they make a decision there,
you're going to be on the
hook to do the same thing.
In the case of a non-repeating event,
it doesn't matter what
value you pass here.
They're all treated the same.
Okay,
so those are the classes we talked about.
That's iCal itself.
And in closing,
we're really excited about this.
We think this is a great
way to access data.
We know a lot of people have been
using other ways to access data,
but hopefully this will
make your lives easier.
And we're excited about people using this
for things that aren't calendar specific,
which is kind of what I feel
like a lot of the things on
OS X using iCal data have been.
So there will be a lab tomorrow.
If you have any questions,
we'll be able to help you
kind of integrate these
calls into your application.
and take all of your feedback there.